=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

MooseX::Types::ISO8601 - ISO8601 date and duration string type constraints and coercions for Moose

=head1 VERSION

version 0.19

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use MooseX::Types::ISO8601 qw/
        ISO8601DateTimeStr
        ISO8601TimeDurationStr
    /;

    has datetime => (
        is => 'ro',
        isa => ISO8601DateTimeStr,
    );

    has duration => (
        is => 'ro',
        isa => ISO8601TimeDurationStr,
        coerce => 1,
    );

    Class->new( datetime => '2012-01-01T00:00:00' );

    Class->new( duration => 60 ); # 60s => PT00H01M00S
    Class->new( duration => DateTime::Duration->new(%args) )

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module packages several L<TypeConstraints|Moose::Util::TypeConstraints> with
coercions for working with ISO8601 date strings and the DateTime suite of objects.

=head1 DATE CONSTRAINTS

=head2 ISO8601DateStr

An ISO8601 date string. E.g. C<< 2009-06-11 >>

=head2 ISO8601TimeStr

An ISO8601 time string. E.g. C<< 12:06:34Z >>

=head2 ISO8601DateTimeStr

An ISO8601 combined datetime string. E.g. C<< 2009-06-11T12:06:34Z >>

=head2 ISO8601DateTimeTZStr

An ISO8601 combined datetime string with a fully specified timezone. E.g. C<< 2009-06-11T12:06:34+00:00 >>

=head2 ISO8601StrictDateStr

=head2 ISO8601StrictTimeStr

=head2 ISO8601StrictDateTimeStr

=head2 ISO8601StrictDateTimeTZStr

As above, only in addition to validating the strings against regular
expressions, an attempt is made to actually parse the data into a L<DateTime>
object.  This will catch cases like C<< 2013-02-31 >> which look correct but do not
correspond to real-world values.  Note that this bears a computation
penalty.

=head2 COERCIONS

The date types will coerce from:

=over

=item C< Num >

The number is treated as a time in seconds since the unix epoch

=item C< DateTime >

The duration represented as a L<DateTime> object.

=item C< Str >

Non-expanded date and time string representations.

e.g.:-

20120113         => 2012-01-13
170500Z          => 17:05:00Z
20120113T170500Z => 2012-01-13T17:05:00Z

Representations of UTC time zone (only an offset of zero is supported)

e.g.:-

17:05:00+00:00 => 17:05:00Z
17:05:00+00    => 17:05:00Z
170500+0000    => 17:05:00Z

2012-01-13T17:05:00+00:00 => 2012-01-13T17:05:00Z
2012-01-13T17:05:00+00    => 2012-01-13T17:05:00Z
20120113T170500+0000      => 2012-01-13T17:05:00Z

Also supports non-standards mixing of expanded and non-expanded representations

e.g.:-

2012-01-13T170500Z => 2012-01-13T17:05:00Z
20120113T17:05:00Z => 2012-01-13T17:05:00Z

In addition, there are coercions from these string types to L<DateTime>.

=back

=head1 DURATION CONSTRAINTS

=head2 ISO8601DateDurationStr

An ISO8601 date duration string. E.g. C<< P01Y01M01D >>

=head2 ISO8601TimeDurationStr

An ISO8601 time duration string. E.g. C<< PT01H01M01S >>

=head2 ISO8601DateTimeDurationStr

An ISO8601 combined date and time duration string. E.g. C<< P01Y01M01DT01H01M01S >>

=head2 COERCIONS

The duration types will coerce from:

=over

=item C< Num >

The number is treated as a time in seconds

=item C< DateTime::Duration >

The duration represented as a L<DateTime::Duration> object.

=back

The duration types will coerce to:

=over

=item C< Duration >

A L<DateTime::Duration>, i.e. the C< Duration > constraint from
L<MooseX::Types::DateTime>.

=back

=head1 FEATURES

=head2 Fractional seconds

If provided, the number of seconds in time types is represented to microsecond
accuracy. A full stop character is used as the decimal separator, which is
allowed, but deprecated in preference to the comma character in
I<ISO 8601:2004>.

=head1 LIMITATIONS

This module is probably full of bugs; patches are very welcome.

Specifically, there are missing features:

=over 4

=item *

No timezone support - all times are assumed UTC

=item *

No week number type

=item *

"Basic format", which lacks separator characters, is not supported for reading or writing.

=item *

Tests are rubbish.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item *

L<MooseX::Types::DateTime>

=item *

L<DateTime>

=item *

L<DateTime::Duration>

=item *

L<DateTime::Format::ISO8601>

=item *

L<DateTime::Format::Duration>

=item *

L<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601>

=item *

L<http://dotat.at/tmp/ISO_8601-2004_E.pdf>

=back

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The development of this code was sponsored by my (Tom's) employer L<http://www.state51.co.uk>.

=head1 SUPPORT

Bugs may be submitted through L<the RT bug tracker|https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=MooseX-Types-ISO8601>
(or L<bug-MooseX-Types-ISO8601@rt.cpan.org|mailto:bug-MooseX-Types-ISO8601@rt.cpan.org>).

There is also a mailing list available for users of this distribution, at
L<http://lists.perl.org/list/moose.html>.

There is also an irc channel available for users of this distribution, at
L<C<#moose> on C<irc.perl.org>|irc://irc.perl.org/#moose>.

=head1 AUTHORS

=over 4

=item *

Tomas Doran (t0m) <bobtfish@bobtfish.net>

=item *

Dave Lambley <davel@state51.co.uk>

=back

=head1 CONTRIBUTORS

=for stopwords Karen Etheridge Dave Lambley zebardy Gregory Oschwald Mark Fowler

=over 4

=item *

Karen Etheridge <ether@cpan.org>

=item *

Dave Lambley <dave@lambley.me.uk>

=item *

zebardy <zebardy@gmail.com>

=item *

Gregory Oschwald <goschwald@maxmind.com>

=item *

Mark Fowler <mark@twoshortplanks.com>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

This software is copyright (c) 2009 by Tomas Doran.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
